==================
What's new in v1.0
==================

Enhancements
------------

- Many new built-in models.
- Many new built-in bandpasses.
- New remote data fetching system.
- SALT2 model covariance available via ``Model.bandfluxcov()`` method and
  ``modelcov=True`` keyword argument passed to ``fit_lc``.
- New simulation function, ``zdist``, generates a distribution of redshifts
  given a volumetric rate function and cosmology.
- New simulation function, ``realize_lcs``, simulates light curve data given a
  model, parameters, and observations.
- Add color-related keyword arguments to ``plot_lc()``.
- Add ``tighten_ylim`` keyword argument to ``plot_lc()``.
- Add ``chisq()`` function and use internally in ``fit_lc()``.
- Add ``SFD98Map`` class for dealing with SFD (1998) dust maps persistently so
  that the underlying FITS files are opened only once. 
- Update ``get_ebv_from_map()`` to work with new SkyCoord class in
  ``astropy.coordinates`` available in astropy v0.3 onward. Previously, this
  function did not work with astropy v0.4.x (where older coordinates classes
  had been removed).
- Update to new configuration system available in astropy v0.4 onward.
  This makes this release incompatible with astropy versions less than
  0.4.
- Now compatible with Python 3.
- Increased test coverage.
- Numerous minor bugfixes.

API changes
-----------

- The API of ``mcmc_lc`` has changed significantly (the function was marked
  experimental in previous release).

- [DEPRECATION] In result of ``fit_lc``, ``res.cov_names`` changed to
  ``res.vparam_names``.  In result of ``nest_lc``, ``res.param_names`` and
  ``res.param_dict`` deprecated. This is for compatibility between
  results of ``fit_lc`` and ``nest_lc``.

- [DEPRECATION] Deprecate ``flatten`` keyword argument in ``fit_lc()`` in
  favor of explicit use of ``flatten_result()`` function.
